All right.
Our next order of business is to create all the control objects that we'll use to animate the character.
We won't actually see any of these bones while we're animating we'll only see the control objects.
And as I said that's just to be sure and keep the rig safe so we don't accidentally select the wrong
bone and destroy the rig.
So the first thing we should do is create the control objects themselves.
I'm going to press shift s and move the cursor to the world origin here.
Then I will press shift a and let's create a mesh circle.
There we go.
Let's call this control object.
How about c o underscore.
Circle.
There we go.
I will hide that from view and from the render and then let's create a cube.
Let's create a box per say let's press shift a mesh cube.
And for this let's go ahead and call it c o for control object.
Box we go and for this let's go to our object data or object panel here and let's choose wireframe here
or wire.
So we only see it as a wireframe I think I'm going to tab into edit mode and with everything selected
I'm just going to press s and z and scale in the z just a bit like this.
But I think that's how I'm going to need it ultimately.
So now we have our control object box and I'll hide that away from the view and the render and then
we need one more.
I'm going to create a sphere and I'm going to do that out of circles so it's.
So it's a wireframe I'll press shift a mesh circle and let's then tab into edit mode I'll hit the one
key to go to vertex mode and with all of this selected I'm going to press shift D and enter and then
I'm going to press r y 9 0 and then we go now and it duplicate this again shift Didi and enter and then
I'm going to press our Z 9 0 and we go.
So now we have this kind of sphere shape and for this let's call this control object or c o underscore
sphere and we go and we'll hide this in the view and hide it in the render now let's clean this up some
it's beginning to get kind of a mess in here.
Let's create a new collection and we'll call these control objects and I'll just select these three
objects in here and click and drag them right into that collection they're and we can also go ahead
and hide this away as well.
In addition I'm not going to need my hair sculpt or the reference objects anymore in fact those are
probably going to get in the way as we do this so I'm just gonna go ahead and right click and delete
and right click and delete the reference object as well.
And we go oh I didn't delete the hierarchy so the reference object stayed here even though the collection
went away I need to right click and delete here as well.
So instead of just deleting what I should have done is right click and select hierarchy and then delete
hierarchy.
That's what I.
I should have done there.
OK so now what let's do is begin creating all the bones that will tell the custom control objects where
to go and in what orientation they need to be.
So for every control object we're going to need a bone and we can do that by selecting the rig going
into edit mode and here's where we'll create all the bones just like we did before but these bones won't
be deforming or controlling the character per say they will just be a placement object for the control
object.
Hopefully it'll make sense as we go along here.
So let's begin with the top bone here to control the head.
We're going to place that circle shape up on top of the head kind of like a halo to control the whole
head.
But we need to place a bone there to tell that circle where to be placed.
So up here I'm going to move the cursor to here and then what I'll do is press shift a let's bring this
bone down like this.
And what I'm going to do now is go to the side view and then what I'm gonna do is select this bone and
then change to active element and that will move its pivot point down to the base of the bone then what
I can do is rotate that bone back 90 degrees so I'll click the x axis hold the control and you can see
in the upper left hand corner I can rotate this down 90 degrees and then we go.
All right.
So that will be the head control.
So if I come over here to the bone panel this will be head control so I will call this head underscore
see for control object.
Now let's do that again for spine to here.
The control for the top of the torso if I select spine to let's then go to shift X and cursor to selected
now notice I've got the cursor here I need to move it back to individual origins and select this point
right there.
Now shift X and cursor to selected and we go.
I'm going to create a bone here shift a and let's bring that straight down like this go to the side
view let's give this one a name I click and click again and I get it here let's change the name to spine
to underscore control object and we go this time once again I'll move the pivot point to the active
element.
I'll go to the rotate tool click.
Control.
Move it 90 degrees.
There we go.
So we've got two of them so far.
Let's go down to this one down here right here.
Let's move the cursor to this and then let's create another bone here.
Shift day lets select it.
And with that pivot point at the active element I should be able to hit s and then just scale it and
bring it down like this and then let's turn it control like this and we go let's do that once again
let's select this point shift s cursor to selected shift a to create the bone we'll select it it s move
it down turn it to the side and then hold control as we turn it back 90 degrees and we go.
So now we need to go through and name these we've done this one and this one this one we need to call
spine one underscore C0 and this one we can call
underscore CEO We go all right in the next video we'll go ahead and create the bones for the arms and
the legs.